The models that we've been looking at
to motivate maxent models
have been joint models.
We just had some data and
we've been putting a probability
distribution over that observed data.
So what do these joint models
of the probability of x
have to do with the conditional
model of the form probability?
Of c given d that we
were building beforehand.
The answer of this question is
that we can think of the c cross d
space as a complex x and,
in particular for those applications,
we are working with the set of
classes is generally small.
It may be there's something
like 2 to 100 topic classes,
part of speech tags, named entity labels.
Whereas on the other hand,
d is generally huge.
So d is the space of
all possible documents,
which is minimally humongous and
possibly infinite.
In principle, we can build models
over the joint space of CxD.
This will involve calculating
expectations of features over CxD
such as is shown in the equation here.
But in this equation,
we're having to sum over the joint space.
And in general,
that's impractical because we can't
enumerate all the members
of X effectively.
It's just far too big a space.
So d may be huge or infinite, but only
a few d occur in our actual training data.
If at the end of the day, we're training
on a million words of training data or
a million documents in a document
classification system,
then we have at most one
million different D, and
often practice will have quite
a few less because of repeats.
So something we could try doing is
adding an extra feature to our model for
each D, and constrain its expectation
to match our empirical data.
So we're saying that the probability
of each d is it's observed probability.
And what that will end up
doing is giving all of
the probability matched in the observe
documents and saying that all the rest of
the entries of p c d will be zero and
we are showing that here.
So now all probability mass is
going to the observed d and
all of the rest of them
are given probability zero.
That seems a slightly
crude thing to do but
it has a clear practical benefit,
because now we have a much easier sum.
because now we only have to sum over
the cases which we saw in the data.
And so then we have to iterate it over
the different possible classes, but
we don't have to iterate anymore
over all possible data items.
So if we've constrained the d
marginals in this way, then in
estimating our model the only thing that
can vary is the conditional distributions.
So, we're rewriting it as this form,
and then we're saying that
the probability of d has to be
the observed probabilities of d.
And so to maximize the likelihood
that the model gives to the data,
the only degree of freedom
we're left with is
adjusting this conditional
probability distribution here.
This is the connection between joint and
conditional maxent entropy or
exponential models.
Conditional models can be thought of as
joint models with marginal constraints
where we exactly match
the distribution of the observed data.
In this constricted model form,
maximizing joint likelihood and
conditional likelihood of
the data are actually equivalent.
Because the joint likelihood
with the constraint of matching
the marginals is the same as
maximizing the conditional likelihood.
Okay, so I hope that's enough of
an introduction to have made sense of
how you can view exponential or log linear
models as models that maximize entropy.